	At first, I am not really interested in computer hardware until I struggled in programming. When we were in first year, I have observed that we were not taught enough knowledge about computer hardware. So far as I can remember, we were just cleaning the power system units with our brushes. We had quizzes but maybe because I am not interested in computer hardware, I was not able to understand computer hardware basics. That is why I had a hard time about troubleshooting the computer.

	According to Computer Hope (www.computerhope.com), to troubleshoot is the process of solving a problem or determining a problem to an issue. It involves the process of elimination, where a technician will follow a set of steps to determine the problem or resolve the problem. For me, there is a big scope of computer hardware in troubleshooting although there is still a lot to do with software. 

	At first, our instructor for this subject was Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao until he had to left the University for some reasons. At his time, we were tasked to do a reporting by partners about the basics of troubleshooting. Until Engr. Max Angelo Perin substituted Engr. Galao, we continued to do the reporting. The reporting went well. The reporting started with the topic about the Microprocessor. It is timely that we have a subject CpE 424 which tackles about Microprocessors so we could relate into. The second topic was about the Random Access Memory (RAM). We were able to learn how to troubleshoot Random Access Memory problems and also the basics of the RAM. The next topics was about the devices that is commonly connected to the computer, the hard disk drive, the keyboard, the mouse, and the monitor. Although these devices were common, we were still able to learn more information about these devices and their common problems and how to troubleshoot these problems. The next topic was about the Network Interface Card (NIC) and the Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) which is new to me, honestly. But thanks to the reporters I was able to learn these things. The next topic was about the Power Supply Unit which was our topic to be reported with my partner Job Christian Tolonghari. That time, it was my first time studying the basic connectors and functions of some parts of the Power Supply Unit since first year because we are also taught about the connectors of it. But we were having a hard time discussing the parts of the Power Supply Unit because nowadays there were upgrades and changes by how it look and also their parts and connectors. The Power Supply that we have got was I think an old model. But for me, we did still had a good job discussing about the Power Supply Unit despite the time given for us to discuss and the model of the Power Supply Unit we used to report. After our report, we were followed by the topics about the expansion cards, video cards, router, the modem, the printer, and lastly, the scanner. It was fun learning about the basic problems of these devices/components and how troubleshoot these problems.

	After the reporting sessions, the whole class was divided into two groups. We were tasked to do a troubleshooting for the Rasp Berry Pi B+ and the system unit. The first group was assigned to troubleshoot the Rasp Berry Pi B+ that is installed with Raspbian and the second group was assigned to troubleshoot the system unit.  I was in the first group and we found out that there was no problem with the Rasp Berry Pi. That day, the other section was able to troubleshoot it first. The problem was about the Operating System that was installed and the connector that is used to supply the Rasp Berry Pi which is not compatible to the required voltage needed to supply the Rasp Berry Pi. But it was already fixed before we were tasked to troubleshoot so we found out that there was no problem. The next day, we were swapped and we were assigned to trouble shoot the system unit. We have observed that the fuse was defective. Because the fuse was defective, we were not able to check the other parts of the motherboard. I have observed that the unit has never been maintained. It was considered as our Quiz 1 and Quiz 2. After that, as part of our activity/project for finals, we were divided into groups and was assigned to do some research about certain topics and how to troubleshoot problems. I was teamed up by Melanie Lyn Guimere and Richard Angelo Jaro but Richard was absent that time due to some activities but despite that, we were able to pass the activity on time.
So this time, I would like to discuss regarding the teaching experience of our instructor in this subject, Engr. Max Angelo Perin. I knew him as a student but now I cannot imagine that he will be our instructor. I knew him as a jolly and knowledgeable person so I was excited to know him more as an instructor. He was just like a friend to us when we are talking but also had limitations as students and he as our instructor. I like him as our instructor because he is kind and approachable not just in our subject but also in other matters like being our panel in our Research. We learned a lot from not just in our subject. It was fun also that he is fan of using Baybayin. I see that he really shows patriotism and he is a proud Filipino char. In short, I am very thankful that he became our instructor. I feel lucky that we were able to meet a kind person like him.

To sum up my experience in troubleshooting, I really enjoyed being with the team and I have learned a lot of things not just in troubleshooting but also learned about working as a team.
